Summary:
During this last years, the sharing economy had an important place in the society. Particularly, the carpooling and ridesharing market had a fast growth. This fast evolution is due to several factors like the transportation cost, the social awareness, the government supports for these activities and other aspects related to the people's way of life.

All these aspects are studied in this following report and supported by statistics and data from different sources. Firstly the carpooling and ridesharing market and its evolution is presented. Then a development of each aspect that makes people to carpool, helps to understand the reasons of the evolution and also the possible obstacles to carpooling. Thus after noticing that a flexible mobility is an important criteria for people, the technology part explains how the new hardware technologies based on connected devices and the new software developments, like de distributed and decentralized systems, could help the market by reducing the obstacle to carpool.

But this situation generated a new legal malfunctions. Indeed, the development of carpooling was faster that the modification of the law. Thus, this industry is either suffering from an excess of restriction or benefiting from the total absence of law which is responsible, most of the time, of conflicts with classic transportation industries.

Conclusion:

Carpooling and ridesharing are innovative share economies. The development of these new mobility solutions will change our habits and our social behavior.

The highest peak for these transportation solutions was reached during 70s, especially in North America, due to different external factors. In this area and during this time, more than 22% of people went to work using ride matching platforms. But during the next decade the number of users decreased to 10%. Nowadays by the hand of the technology and innovative, business ideas are doing a strong and fast resurging. 

Currently the largest companies in the carpooling industry are Uber, Lyft, Blablacar, Kuaidi.  Many other new companies also start their businesses and can be successful due to access to open-source hardware and software and also with the use of new technologies like blockchain. Every month, thousands of people join these share networks, with the purpose of share expenses, earn money, enjoy a more personalized transport service, have real interaction with people and for many others reasons. 

The competition between those companies is ferocious. Most of them have been in the last 3 years collecting huge amount of funds from venture companies, with the purpose to implement their marketing strategies and spread their offers through local or global markets. The most strategic markets are concentrated in North America, Europe and Asia. Fueled by the increase of financial investments especially in USA and China and the progress of environmental policies, the market is growing faster and faster. 

At the same time the non-controlled increase number of vehicles that are sold every year, the traffic jam in big cities becoming every year worst, and the quality of the air due to the Carbone dioxide emanated by the vehicles, create the conditions to link the market, people and government work together in the same direction. Many people see the ridesharing and carpooling like the solution to the environmental problems. Others think that the most important is the idea of share economy because this business can increase the productivity and efficiency of the cars from the economic point of view. 

At the same time users are expecting more from this industry because of the innovative technologies that are continuously developed. They are demanding a wide network of users that let them to have real time matching, with efficiently and personalized features. Thus, the development of new technologies and new concepts is the most important challenge for such companies. But the companies like Uber, have already anticipated this situation and they are currently using the most advanced and updated technologies. These technologies are not only solutions to boost the market with dynamic, flexible and optimal systems. They are also solution to bypass the obstacles related to the limitation of geographic area and the security which nowadays represent obstacles for the development of the carpooling and ridesharing. For some other companies, the challenge is not only developing technologies to support this market. They are thinking out of the box and trying to make great leaps by investing in technological centers to develop technologies to make possible self-driving cars. This will be soon an important revolution for the carpooling and ridesharing market.

But this potential is slowed-down by the regulation aspect. Even if several countries already have authorized and adopted the concept, some others decided only to supervise the practice of carpooling and ridesharing without any rules to follow. The countries that recently change their positions about this topic made this choice after studying the impact of this on the traffic congestion, pollution and energy saving. If this industry is not accepted in some countries like china, it is because of lobbying and resistance of classic transportation actors like the taxi drivers
